# Attitudes Towards the Covid-19 Vaccine in the United States
*Final Project for DPI 610: Data Science For Politics*

### Introduction

The novel coronavirus leading to COVID-19 infection is regarded in terms of mortality, economic ruin andtransmissibility, to be the most severe pandemic in over a century. Dr. Anthony Fauci, the United States’leading infectious disease expert and White House advisor, has expressed that vaccine uptake and acceptancewill be critical to any return to ‘normal’ pre-pandemic life. At the time of writing, there have been 140 millionrecorded cases of the infectious disease, 80 million recovered cases and 3.01 million fatalities.The public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic across the United States has been uncoordinatedacross state lines. Public cooperation with public health guidelines and restrictions has also varied greatlyacross the country and appears to be correlated with partisanship. Early scholarship suggests the infectionhas a disproportionately high infection rate among poor Americans.  Manely and Shrestha (2021) findsupportive evidence for counties with higher rates of poverty being less responsive to stay-at-home ordersand having a higher infection rate, even in low-density locations.  Some experts also expect there willbe discernible variations in vaccine uptake along ethnic and wealth cleavages. What we can deduce fromthe aforementioned data is that Americans’ experiences of the pandemic and their relationship to healthauthorities is highly heterogeneous and variable. We can further intuit that health outcomes and vaccineuptake may correlate with group identity or individual characteristics.In this project, we seek to predict and assign a score to the willingness of individuals to be vaccinated basedon their demographic characteristics. We will test and train our model using a dataset of factors associatedwith acceptance of the vaccine. We will report the efficiency statistic for this model. Our group will thenseek to make cursory comparisons between predicted vaccine acceptance and compliance with public healthrestrictions in regions in the United States, by determining the accuracy of our vaccine hesitancy modelin also predicting non-compliance with public health guidelines. Finally, we will consider the limits of ourmodel, horizons for future research, and policy implications
